# What is Flexible Dieting? - Introduction

<br>

We see it all the time.. everywhere you look, every fitness show you go to, anybody trying to make a "life-style change". Every time fitness and nutrition get brought up there is always some new trick or secret to try, or someone claiming to know what works and what doesn't. The fact of the matter is that most of these are bullshit, to be blunt... The myths and misconceptions that are swirling around in the fitness industry are endless. Alot of them are obvious, and others not so much. You might find youself wondering "What in the world? There's no way that is true! Everyone knows that doesn't work!"

Flexible dieting, so what is it? There is a common notion in the fitness industry that when one want's to lose weight, they have to restrict themselves to certain kinds of foods. Oftenly referred to as 'clean eating'. This is the BIGGEST misconception that surrounds the topic of nutrition. Flexible dieting has come to light in recent years due to the overwhelming scientific consensus supporting it. It is exactly what it sounds like... You are able to be flexible in your diet, meaning you get to choose what foods you eat when trying to lose weight. Yes, any food that your little heart desires.... Sounds like bullshit huh? Flexible dieting allows the dieter to eat whatever they want, as long as they are meeting their pre-determined caloric intake for the day. However, this does NOT mean that your entire diet is filled up with cheeseburgers and icecream. What it DOES mean, is the majority of your foods come from healthier (let's abandon the word clean for now) sources, and then the rest of your caloric intake can be made up of whatever you want to eat. This allows us to still be healthy, get our vitamins and minerals for the day, and keep our sanity when dieting. Don't mistake this for just being a walk in the park, or else you will be severly let down. It requires lots of discipline and commitment.

