# How We Lose/Gain Weight

<br>

The first law of thermodynamics states that since matter can not be created nor destroyed, all energy systems are defined by this equation: Net energy = Energy in - Energy out. Since the human body is in its own, a closed energy system, we can also apply this equation to our bodies. Since the only way we get energy is from eating, we can modify it to look like this: Net energy = Calories in - Calories out. Thus, if you are eating more calories that what you are burning, you will be in a postive energy balance, and vice versa. This is what governs weight gain/loss at the most fundamental level.

Twenty-four hours a day your body has to run its bodily functions. These functions require energy to happen, and we get this energy from eating. Calories are just a measurement for energy (similar to how miles-per-hour are a measurement for speed). When you eat calories, it allows your muscles, liver, stomach, brain, central-nervous-system, immune system, and EVERYTHING else, to operate. Well, what happens when we start cutting of the amount of energy we intake? Think of all these systems running off a budget--a calorie budget. When you cut the budget down, you're body has to find ways to continue to operate, but with less. Your body is greedy though, it always wants more, and it usually has its way (i.e. binging, which we will cover in a later chapter). When you cut lower the budget (or caloric intake) on your body, it has to find energy from elsewhere. This is why we store fat, so in times that you're not eating enough energy to sustain your bodily functions, you're body has a reserve tank that it can pull from. Fat is just stored energy, waiting to be used. Thus, when we aren't eating enough energy, we lose fat. However, it's not that simple. Ignorantly just cutting off your food supply can have SERIOUS side effects on your body, and potentially fatal. Also, if you aren't setting up your caloric intake correctly you will make your body start drawing energy from your muscles, which we don't want! In essence, this is how you lose weight... Just by eating less you give your body no other choice but to get energy from somewhere else.

Gaining weight is just the opposite end of the spectrum. When you are eating an adeqaute amount that allows your body to run normally, you're body has no reason to get energy from your fat, so it stores it. However, it's not exactly just *storing* it. What happens is when you under-eat, you are oxidizing stored fat. Well when you over eat, you prevent the oxidization of fat, and thus what you're eating accumulates onto the fat you already have. That sounds scary, and sounds like anything but dieting should be avoided, but it is really not that harsh. Unless you're racking in hundreds of extra calories for numerous days in a row, you're not just going to wake up way fatter than what you previously were.

In conclusion, we have dwelved into exactly what causes our body to lose fat, and gain weight. **THIS** is what governs whether or not you are losing/gaining weight, **NOT** the common notion that you must eat a certain group of foods. That is asinine, and has absolutely no scientific basis to support it. 
